alright man so the organization is
called not forgotten so what does that
mean not forgotten we're actually
telling the kids that they are not
forgotten
that despite that fact they've been
abandoned or abused that people that are
out there who care about them and love
them got it and that's you that's us got
it
we're on there Dean hey excellent all
right so let's do this not forgotten hey
it's me Destin welcome to Iquitos Peru
it's a city of 400,000 and weird morning
rush-hour traffic for the last week a
buddy of mine named CJ and I have been
working on a concrete crew we're working
on a a septic tank for an orphanage it's
pretty awesome so today we're going to
learn about how to use levers you'd be
amazed what they can do with simple
machines down here get smarter every day
okay I'm going to use my lunch to teach
you about levers for leverage there's
three things you need to know and that's
F our e 1 2 3 at this fulcrum fulcrum is
the point that you pivot about R is
resistance in this case it's the fish
that I'm going to eat and E is the
effort so when I push down on the effort
then I pick up my resistance by pivoting
on my fulcrum for a class 1 lever the
fulcrum is in the middle for our class 2
lever
the resistance is in the middle the
fulcrum is on one side and the efforts
on the other and finally for class 3 the
efforts in the middle and the fulcrum
and the resistance are on the outside f
r e 1 2 3 whatever letter corresponds
with a number that is what is in the
center of the lever check out this video
from the worksite and see if you can
identify different classes of levers
a smart
come on say hello
yeah well hey almost destined hey
so it's really cool about this project
is we're able to use our time talent and
knowledge to work on something much
larger than ourselves it's really fun
but if you think about it it's not the
first time that levers have been used in
Peru to build something really big are
the smaller things is it anyway if you
think this project is pretty cool and
you want to donate to the effort use us
and not forgotten as the fulcrum and
then lift up abandoned children then all
you have to do is check out the link in
the video description below and you can
donate if you're interested in that if
not just remember this F R e one two
three and you can always remember what
class of lever is I'm Destin you're
getting smarter every day have a good
one so here on the jobsite there's only
one rule that's obey the Pepe dig pit
fidel is the boss and you do what he
says if he says do it you do it fast you
jump see that works so I'm a mechanical
engineer so I'm focusing on the details
of the structure and this is my buddy CJ
he is a systems engineer so he's
focusing on the overall project getting
things done and we are here to home for
boys this is kind of what we're trying
to set up although with not forgotten oh
limit Lima this limits its a close to
calculus so you're almost doing calculus
that's awesome so you can see here in
the boys home they're learning all kinds
of cool stuff
not it
that's what we're trying to do